Singing in the Rain is a musical
masterpiece filled with memorable songs
spectacular dance routines, a classic old
Hollywood setting: it's a film that many
would describe as a timeless classic and
I believe you should watch it as for why
that is let's look at two aspects of the
film the story and the spectacle of the
song and dance routines and with that
out of the way
This is Singing in the Rain
the movie is set in the 1910s, at the premiere of a
Don Lockwood and Lina Lamont film both
of whom are big-name movie stars though
it's Don that's the star of this film
before the premiere, we learn about Don's
humble beginnings from his childhood
growing up and working with his best
friend, Cosmo Brown, up until his
adulthood where he began to rise in fame
going from musician, to Vaudeville act, to
stuntman until he became the leading man
that he is today. After the premiere Don
and Cosmo head out to attend a party
hosted by RF Simpson, the producer of
Don's films, but on their way there they
have car trouble and run into a frenzy
of Don's fans who Don manages to escape
from after jumping into the car of Kathy
Selden a young and aspiring actress
hoping to make it big on stage who
freaks out when she sees dawn but when
she realizes who he is she makes it
clear what she thinks about Don's work
its overly dramatic, its lacking in life,
and what more it's not even "real acting"
which doesn't sit well with Don but
even with this disagreement she drops
him off at R.F.'s party and it's here
Don is shown a talking movie
–a technical marvel for the time
that many guests are skeptical of
after the showing a cake is wheeled out
and from it pops out
Kathy Selden! Who is not in fact an
actress but is in fact a chorus girl
after her performance and some teasing from Don
about her high and mighty attitude
earlier, Kathy throws a cake in Don's
face but accidentally hits Lina instead!
Kathy immediately leaves the party with
Don in pursuit who has found himself
smitten with the young dancer and wants
to get to know her better but he doesn't
catch up to her in time
Three weeks later, Don meets Kathy at the
back lot of Monumental Pictures where
she admits that she's actually a big fan
of his and is promptly hired to work
with him and from here on out they'll
be working very closely together
but problems arise when the jazz singer, a talking movie or "talkie", becomes a
big hit at the box office so Don and Lina's
newest picture the Dueling Cavalier is
turned into a talkie but problems arise
on set due to the inexperience Don and Lina
have with talking films and well, Lina's
voice
[Speaking in a shrill voice]
"Pierre, you shouldn't have come!"
and things go from bad to worse as on
the night of the film's preview
more problems occur: the audio dubbing goes
out of sync and the performances are
seen as cheesy and undignified leading
to the first talkie of Don and Lina's
career, bombing before it's even released
after the embarrassing preview: Don, Cosmo,
and Cathy mull over the failure of the
film but the trio lift their spirits up
after some talking as they come up with
a plan to re-release the Dueling
Cavalier as a musical with Kathy
dubbing over Lina's physical performance
fixing the problem of Lina's voice and
of course taking advantage of
the latest trends
from there the trio work together to
transform a Dueling Cavalier
into a musical called "The Dancing Cavalier"
secretly recording lines and songs
without Lina's knowledge going so far as
to shoot new scenes and changing the
plot to feature a modern-day segment
but Lina finds out and not only is she
mad that Kathy will be dubbing over her
performance she's jealous of the
attention Don gives her (Kathy)
and being the jealous diva that she is
Lina blackmails and threatens to sue R.F.
for this violation of her contract and
with little choice R.F. begrudgingly agrees
and wipes Kathy's credit from the film
at the premiere of "The Dancing Cavalier"
people love Lina and Don's performance
and after much applause and encore from
the audience, Don and Lina go backstage to be
congratulated by Kathy and Cosmo where
Lina reveals that Kathy is now
contractually obligated to dub over
Lina's performances for all future films
and then an argument erupts backstage
between Lina, The Trio, and R.F. but it's
interrupted when Lina is asked to
deliver a speech after which she's
requested to sing live in front of all
of these people but Don has a clever
plan which he shares with R.F. and Cosmo
and when Lina comes back for help dawn
forces Kathy to sing into a microphone
behind a curtain as Lina mouths along to
the song Kathy sings only for the curtain
to get pulled by Don, Cosmo, and R.F.
humiliating Lina as the crowd realizes
that it's Kathy doing the singing
embarrassed and stressed from the whole
ordeal Kathy tries to run away but is
stopped when Don gives credit where
credit is due and admits his love for
Kathy and the film and to the two of
them kissing in front of the billboard
for their newest film: Singing in the Rain
so the story of Singing in the Rain is simple:
It's cute, it's quaint, it's classic
an appealing and romantic love story that charmed the
critics and audiences who watched it
that fills those who watch it with this warm, fuzzy
feeling of nostalgia
but story is only part of the reason why
people remember Singing in the Rain
the other part is its music and
dances and to get what I mean
let's look at three of my favorite song and
dance routines:
Make 'Em Laugh, Broadway Melody, and Singing in the Rain
"Make 'Em Laugh" is such a fun and creative sequence:
the set up for this is that Don
is visiting the studio three weeks
after the party talking with Cosmo who
goes on a rant about actors and
entertainers leading to this song. This
whole sequence composed of multiple
long takes makes good use of "mise-en-scene",
with a dynamic floor routine that goes
up and down, left and right intermixed
with silly gags and funny moments
such as Cosmo trying to fix his nose
after running into a brick wall and the
memorable and goofy couch sequence with
Cosmo and a dummy–it's a fun whimsical
high-energy performance that I loved as
a child and I still do even to this day
"Broadway Melody" is one humdinger of a
sequence and arguably one the most
artistically impressive framed as a
diegetic movie it has impressive sets
and an internal storyline that features
Cyd Charisse as a guest dancer
who's got legs that go on for miles! Yowza!
the sequence is set in a fantastical and
stage-depiction of Broadway
with colorful clothes, moving sidewalks, and Don playing a young dancer hoping to make it big on Big Broadway
it is filled to the brim with bombastic
big-band music, group dance
numbers and solo floor routines and also
features a two minute long dance shared by
Gene Kelly and Cyd Charisse who
throughout the dance exudes this
intensely sultry seductive energy and
although the sequence is a bit jarring
with how its introduced the whole
sequence is an ode to Broadway musicals
and acts as a nice respite in art design
and creativity from the rest of the film
finally there is my favorite song and
dance sequence that the musical was
named after Singing in the Rain,
featuring Don singing about how his
hopes are high, he's in love, and how he
feels like a million bucks! Nothing in
this moment can bring him down not even
the rain that he's singing and dancing
in and it's just fun to see Don cut loose
and enjoy himself as he plays around with
the street set and his umbrella with the
band swelling in parallel
with the peaking of his joy and spirit and there
are a lot of things I love about the
sequence, in particular are the many
memorable shots throughout it like Don
hanging from the lamppost or leaning
against it and this particular moment
where he's got this big, goofy grin on
his face that perfectly encapsulates the
feelings I get when I watch this movie
there's this joy, this vigor, and this
emotion to the song, to the dance, and to
the cinematography that I can't help but
adore. Maybe it's the choreography, the
expression of Don's face, or the big-band
sound that plays throughout the whole
sequence whatever it is, it always makes
me grin and sing along with Don
whenever I watch this sequence
and it really is the crowning jewel of this musical
and after talking about all these things
the unifying feature that to me makes
this film so memorable is nostalgia
because we see how film changes in
response to new technology, we see how
they've changed the way that they shoot
films and make movies and the film's
attention to detail in regards to these
aspects of filmmaking and the industry
as a whole makes it a celebration of an
older time, a tribute to an era that
would form the foundations of modern
film
Making Singing in the Rain into a time capsule
that lets you peek into the past
in addition to being a classic
musical with great songs, choreography,
and characters and with that said if you
like musicals, I suggest that you watch
this film at least ONCE in your life and
if you don't like it you can tell me all
about it
in the comments down below with that
said thank you so much for watching
ladies and gentlemen, if you enjoyed it
leave a like down below
and subscribe to get updated on my
latest uploads until next time